<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!-- Produced by developing and running refine-hexagram-list.xsl on source hexagram-list.xhtml, pulled from Wikipedia -->
<!-- with a (very few) copy edits involving capitalization, whitespace -->
<!-- Titles given reflect character names from Unicode -->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>I Ching Summary (King Wen Order)</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <section class="hexagram ䷀">
         <header>1 ䷀ The Creative Heaven</header>
         <p>Hexagram 1 is named 乾 (qián), "Force". Other variations include "the creative", "strong
            action", "the key", and "god". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天)
            heaven, and its outer (upper) trigram is the same.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷁">
         <header>2 ䷁ The Receptive Earth</header>
         <p>Hexagram 2 is named 坤 (kūn), "Field". Other variations include "the receptive",
            "acquiescence", and "the flow". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地)
            earth, and its outer (upper) trigram is identical.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷂">
         <header>3 ䷂ Difficulty at the Beginning</header>
         <p>Hexagram 3 is named 屯 (zhūn), "Sprouting". Other variations include "difficulty at the
            beginning", "gathering support", and "hoarding". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☳ (震 zhèn)
            shake = (雷) thunder, and its outer (upper) trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷃">
         <header>4 ䷃ Youthful Folly</header>
         <p>Hexagram 4 is named 蒙 (méng), "Enveloping". Other variations include "youthful folly",
            "the young shoot", and "discovering". Its inner trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water.
            Its outer trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山) mountain.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷄">
         <header>5 ䷄ Waiting</header>
         <p>Hexagram 5 is named 需 (xū), "Attending". Other variations include "waiting",
            "moistened", and "arriving". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven,
            and its outer (upper) trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷅">
         <header>6 ䷅ Conflict</header>
         <p>Hexagram 6 is named 訟 (sòng), "Arguing". Other variations include "conflict" and
            "lawsuit". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water, and its outer
            (upper) trigram is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷆">
         <header>7 ䷆ The Army</header>
         <p>Hexagram 7 is named 師 (shī), "Leading". Other variations include "the army" and "the
            troops". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water, and its outer (upper)
            trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷇">
         <header>8 ䷇ Holding Together</header>
         <p>Hexagram 8 is named 比 (bǐ), "Grouping". Other variations include "holding together" and
            "alliance". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth, and its outer
            (upper) trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷈">
         <header>9 ䷈ Small Taming</header>
         <p>Hexagram 9 is named 小畜 (xiǎo chù), "Small Accumulating". Other variations include "the
            taming power of the small" and "small harvest". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☰ (乾 qián)
            force = (天) heaven, and its outer (upper) trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷉">
         <header>10 ䷉ Treading</header>
         <p>Hexagram 10 is named 履 (lǚ), "Treading". Other variations include "treading (conduct)"
            and "continuing". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp, and its outer
            (upper) trigram is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷊">
         <header>11 ䷊ Peace</header>
         <p>Hexagram 11 is named 泰 (tài), "Pervading". Other variations include "peace" and
            "greatness". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven, and its outer
            (upper) trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷋">
         <header>12 ䷋ Standstill</header>
         <p>Hexagram 12 is named 否 (pǐ), "Obstruction". Other variations include "standstill
            (stagnation)" and "selfish persons". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地)
            earth, and its outer (upper) trigram is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷌">
         <header>13 ䷌ Fellowship</header>
         <p>Hexagram 13 is named 同人 (tóng rén), "Concording People". Other variations include
            "fellowship with men" and "gathering men". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☲ (離 lí)
            radiance = (火) fire, and its outer (upper) trigram is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷍">
         <header>14 ䷍ Great Possession</header>
         <p>Hexagram 14 is named 大有 (dà yǒu), "Great Possessing". Other variations include
            "possession in great measure" and "the great possession". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☰
            (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven, and its outer (upper) trigram is ☲ (離 lí) radiance = (火)
            fire.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷎">
         <header>15 ䷎ Modesty</header>
         <p>Hexagram 15 is named 謙 (qiān), "Humbling". Other variations include "modesty". Its inner
            (lower) trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山) mountain and its outer (upper) trigram is ☷ (坤
            kūn) field = (地) earth.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷏">
         <header>16 ䷏ Enthusiasm</header>
         <p>Hexagram 16 is named 豫 (yù), "Providing-For". Other variations include "enthusiasm" and
            "excess". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth, and its outer
            (upper) trigram is ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷) thunder.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷐">
         <header>17 ䷐ Following</header>
         <p>Hexagram 17 is named 隨 (suí), "Following". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☳ (震 zhèn) shake
            = (雷) thunder, and its outer (upper) trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷑">
         <header>18 ䷑ Work on the Decayed</header>
         <p>Hexagram 18 is named 蠱 (gǔ), "Correcting". Other variations include "work on what has
            been spoiled (decay)", decaying and "branch".<sup id="cite_ref-1" class="reference"
               >[1]</sup> Its inner (lower) trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind, and its outer
            (upper) trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山) mountain. Gu is the name of a venom-based
            poison traditionally used in Chinese witchcraft.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷒">
         <header>19 ䷒ Approach</header>
         <p>Hexagram 19 is named 臨 (lín), "Nearing". Other variations include "approach" and "the
            forest". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp, and its outer (upper)
            trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷓">
         <header>20 ䷓ Contemplation</header>
         <p>Hexagram 20 is named 觀 (guān), "Viewing". Other variations include "contemplation
            (view)" and "looking up". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth, and
            its outer (upper) trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷔">
         <header>21 ䷔ Biting Through</header>
         <p>Hexagram 21 is named 噬嗑 (shì kè), "Gnawing Bite". Other variations include "biting
            through" and "biting and chewing". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷)
            thunder, and its outer trigram is ☲ (離 lí) radiance = (火) fire. <sup id="cite_ref-2"
               class="reference">[2]</sup></p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷕">
         <header>22 ䷕ Grace</header>
         <p>Hexagram 22 is named 賁 (bì), "Adorning". Other variations include "grace" and
            "luxuriance". Its inner (lower) trigram is ☲ (離 lí) radiance = (火) fire, and its outer
            (upper) trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山) mountain. <sup id="cite_ref-3"
               class="reference">[3]</sup></p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷖">
         <header>23 ䷖ Splitting Apart</header>
         <p>Hexagram 23 is named 剝 (bō), "Stripping". Other variations include "splitting apart" and
            "flaying". Its inner trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth, and its outer trigram is ☶
            (艮 gèn) bound = (山) mountain.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷗">
         <header>24 ䷗ Return</header>
         <p>Hexagram 24 is named 復 (fù), "Returning". Other variations include "return (the turning
            point)". Its inner trigram is ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷) thunder, and its outer trigram is ☷
            (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷘">
         <header>25 ䷘ Innocence</header>
         <p>Hexagram 25 is named 無妄 (wú wàng), "Without Embroiling". Other variations include
            "innocence (the unexpected)" and "pestilence". Its inner trigram is ☳ (震 zhèn) shake =
            (雷) thunder, and its outer trigram is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷙">
         <header>26 ䷙ Great Taming</header>
         <p>Hexagram 26 is named 大畜 (dà chù), "Great Accumulating". Other variations include "the
            taming power of the great", "great storage", and "potential energy". Its inner trigram
            is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven, and its outer trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山)
            mountain.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷚">
         <header>27 ䷚ Mouth Corners</header>
         <p>Hexagram 27 is named 頤 (yí), "Swallowing". Other variations include "the corners of the
            mouth (providing nourishment)", "jaws" and "comfort/security". Its inner trigram is ☳ (震
            zhèn) shake = (雷) thunder, and its outer trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山) mountain.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷛">
         <header>28 ䷛ Great Preponderance</header>
         <p>Hexagram 28 is named 大過 (dà guò), "Great Exceeding". Other variations include
            "preponderance of the great", "great surpassing" and "critical mass". Its inner trigram
            is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind, and its outer trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷜">
         <header>29 ䷜ The Abysmal Water</header>
         <p>Hexagram 29 is named 坎 (kǎn), "Gorge". Other variations include "the abyss" (in the
            oceanographic sense) and "repeated entrapment". Its inner trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge =
            (水) water, and its outer trigram is identical.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷝">
         <header>30 ䷝ The Clinging Fire</header>
         <p>Hexagram 30 is named 離 (lí), "Radiance". Other variations include "the clinging, fire"
            and "the net". Its inner trigram is ☲ (離 lí) radiance = (火) fire, and its outer trigram
            is identical. The origin of the character has its roots in symbols of long-tailed birds
            such as the peacock or the legendary phoenix.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷞">
         <header>31 ䷞ Influence</header>
         <p>Hexagram 31 is named 咸 (xián), "Conjoining". Other variations include "influence
            (wooing)" and "feelings". Its inner trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山) mountain, and its
            outer trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷟">
         <header>32 ䷟ Duration</header>
         <p>Hexagram 32 is named 恆 (héng), "Persevering". Other variations include "duration" and
            "constancy". Its inner trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind, and its outer trigram is
            ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷) thunder.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷠">
         <header>33 ䷠ Retreat</header>
         <p>Hexagram 33 is named 遯 (dùn), "Retiring". Other variations include "retreat" and
            "yielding". Its inner trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山) mountain, and its outer trigram
            is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷡">
         <header>34 ䷡ Great Power</header>
         <p>Hexagram 34 is named 大壯 (dà zhuàng), "Great Invigorating". Other variations include "the
            power of the great" and "great maturity". Its inner trigram is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天)
            heaven, and its outer trigram is ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷) thunder.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷢">
         <header>35 ䷢ Progress</header>
         <p>Hexagram 35 is named 晉 (jìn), "Prospering". Other variations include "progress" and
            "aquas". Its inner trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth, and its outer trigram is ☲ (離
            lí) radiance = (火) fire.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷣">
         <header>36 ䷣ Darkening of the Light</header>
         <p>Hexagram 36 is named 明夷 (míng yí), "Darkening of the Light". Other variations include
            "brilliance injured" and "intelligence hidden". Its inner trigram is ☲ (離 lí) radiance =
            (火) fire, and its outer trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷤">
         <header>37 ䷤ The Family</header>
         <p>Hexagram 37 is named 家人 (jiā rén), "Dwelling People". Other variations include "the
            family (the clan)" and "family members". Its inner trigram is ☲ (離 lí) radiance = (火)
            fire, and its outer trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷥">
         <header>38 ䷥ Opposition</header>
         <p>Hexagram 38 is named 睽 (kuí), "Polarising". Other variations include "opposition" and
            "perversion". Its inner trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp, and its outer trigram is
            ☲ (離 lí) radiance = (火) fire.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷦">
         <header>39 ䷦ Obstruction</header>
         <p>Hexagram 39 is named 蹇 (jiǎn), "Limping". Other variations include "obstruction" and
            "afoot". Its inner trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山) mountain, and its outer trigram is ☵
            (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷧">
         <header>40 ䷧ Deliverance</header>
         <p>Hexagram 40 is named 解 (xiè), "Taking-Apart". Other variations include "deliverance" and
            "untangled". Its inner trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water, and its outer trigram is
            ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷) thunder.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷨">
         <header>41 ䷨ Decrease</header>
         <p>Hexagram 41 is named 損 (sǔn), "Diminishing". Other variations include "decrease". Its
            inner trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp, and its outer trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound =
            (山) mountain.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷩">
         <header>42 ䷩ Increase</header>
         <p>Hexagram 42 is named 益 (yì), "Augmenting". Other variations include "increase". Its
            inner trigram is ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷) thunder, and its outer trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn)
            ground = (風) wind.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷪">
         <header>43 ䷪ Breakthrough</header>
         <p>Hexagram 43 is named 夬 (guài), "Displacement". Other variations include "resoluteness",
            "parting", and "break-through". Its inner trigram is ☰ (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven, and
            its outer trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷫">
         <header>44 ䷫ Coming to Meet</header>
         <p>Hexagram 44 is named 姤 (gòu), "Coupling". Other variations include "coming to meet" and
            "meeting". Its inner trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind, and its outer trigram is ☰
            (乾 qián) force = (天) heaven.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷬">
         <header>45 ䷬ Gathering Together</header>
         <p>Hexagram 45 is named 萃 (cuì), "Clustering". Other variations include "gathering together
            (massing)" and "finished". Its inner trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn) field = (地) earth, and its
            outer trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷭">
         <header>46 ䷭ Pushing Upward</header>
         <p>Hexagram 46 is named 升 (shēng), "Ascending". Other variations include "pushing upward".
            Its inner trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind, and its outer trigram is ☷ (坤 kūn)
            field = (地) earth.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷮">
         <header>47 ䷮ Oppression</header>
         <p>Hexagram 47 is named 困 (kùn), "Confining". Other variations include "oppression
            (exhaustion)" and "entangled". Its inner trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water, and its
            outer trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷯">
         <header>48 ䷯ The Well</header>
         <p>Hexagram 48 is named 井 (jǐng), "Welling". Other variations include "the well". Its inner
            trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind, and its outer trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水)
            water.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷰">
         <header>49 ䷰ Revolution</header>
         <p>Hexagram 49 is named 革 (gé), "Skinning". Other variations include "revolution (molting)"
            and "the bridle". Its inner trigram is ☲ (離 lí) radiance = (火) fire, and its outer
            trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷱">
         <header>50 ䷱ The Cauldron</header>
         <p>Hexagram 50 is named 鼎 (dǐng), "Holding". Other variations include "the cauldron". Its
            inner trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind, and its outer trigram is ☲ (離 lí) radiance
            = (火) fire.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷲">
         <header>51 ䷲ The Arousing Thunder</header>
         <p>Hexagram 51 is named 震 (zhèn), "Shake". Other variations include "the arousing (shock,
            thunder)" and "thunder". Both its inner and outer trigrams are ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷)
            thunder.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷳">
         <header>52 ䷳ The Keeping Still Mountain</header>
         <p>Hexagram 52 is named 艮 (gèn), "Bound". Other variations include "keeping still,
            mountain" and "stilling". Both its inner and outer trigrams are ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山)
            mountain.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷴">
         <header>53 ䷴ Development</header>
         <p>Hexagram 53 is named 漸 (jiàn), "Infiltrating". Other variations include "development
            (gradual progress)" and "advancement". Its inner trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山)
            mountain, and its outer trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷵">
         <header>54 ䷵ The Marrying Maiden</header>
         <p>Hexagram 54 is named 歸妹 (guī mèi), "Converting the Maiden". Other variations include
            "the marrying maiden" and "returning maiden". Its inner trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤)
            swamp, and its outer trigram is ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷) thunder.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷶">
         <header>55 ䷶ Abundance</header>
         <p>Hexagram 55 is named 豐 (fēng), "Abounding". Other variations include "abundance" and
            "fullness". Its inner trigram is ☲ (離 lí) radiance = (火) fire, and its outer trigram is
            ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷) thunder.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷷">
         <header>56 ䷷ The Wanderer</header>
         <p>Hexagram 56 is named 旅 (lǚ), "Sojourning". Other variations include "the wanderer" and
            "traveling". Its inner trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn) bound = (山) mountain, and its outer trigram
            is ☲ (離 lí) radiance = (火) fire.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷸">
         <header>57 ䷸ The Gentle Wind</header>
         <p>Hexagram 57 is named 巽 (xùn), "Ground". Other variations include "the gentle (the
            penetrating, wind)" and "calculations". Both its inner and outer trigrams are ☴ (巽 xùn)
            ground = (風) wind.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷹">
         <header>58 ䷹ The Joyous Lake</header>
         <p>Hexagram 58 is named 兌 (duì), "Open". Other variations include "the joyous, lake" and
            "usurpation". Both its inner and outer trigrams are ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷺">
         <header>59 ䷺ Dispersion</header>
         <p>Hexagram 59 is named 渙 (huàn), "Dispersing". Other variations include "dispersion
            (dissolution)" and "dispersal". Its inner trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water, and
            its outer trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷻">
         <header>60 ䷻ Limitation</header>
         <p>Hexagram 60 is named 節 (jié), "Articulating". Other variations include "limitation" and
            "moderation". Its inner trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp, and its outer trigram is
            ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷼">
         <header>61 ䷼ Inner Truth</header>
         <p>Hexagram 61 is named 中孚 (zhōng fú), "Center Returning". Other variations include "inner
            truth" and "central return". Its inner trigram is ☱ (兌 duì) open = (澤) swamp, and its
            outer trigram is ☴ (巽 xùn) ground = (風) wind.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷽">
         <header>62 ䷽ Small Preponderance</header>
         <p>Hexagram 62 is named 小過 (xiǎo guò), "Small Exceeding". Other variations include
            "preponderance of the small" and "small surpassing". Its inner trigram is ☶ (艮 gèn)
            bound = (山) mountain, and its outer trigram is ☳ (震 zhèn) shake = (雷) thunder.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷾">
         <header>63 ䷾ After Completion</header>
         <p>Hexagram 63 is named 既濟 (jì jì), "Already Fording". Other variations include "after
            completion" and "already completed" or "already done" . Its inner trigram is ☲ (離 lí)
            radiance = (火) fire, and its outer trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="hexagram ䷿">
         <header>64 ䷿ Before Completion</header>
         <p>Hexagram 64 is named 未濟 (wèi jì), "Not Yet Fording". Other variations include "before
            completion" and "not yet completed". Its inner trigram is ☵ (坎 kǎn) gorge = (水) water,
            and its outer trigram is ☲ (離 lí) radiance = (火) fire.</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>